in this lesson i wanted to review the
constructs available for our management
hierarchy
remember at the top we have our azure ad
instance so for our particular company
we have an instance of azure
active directory
and that may be synchronized from
on-premises active directory using azure
ad connect to azure id connect cloud
sync but i have my users groups maybe
machine objects in my azure ad
then from a governance and management
perspective
under the azure ad
we have the idea of a route management
group that's tied directly to our azure
ad instance
now under that root management group
i can then create my own hierarchy
of management groups
and so i'm thinking here about my
management
groups
and these can be not including the route
so it's kind of a management group here
here
i have all these management groups
forming the hierarchy
this can be up to
six levels
so i can have an additional six levels
of management groups
then under the management group
i'm going to have subscriptions
so we'll have multiple subscription so
this could be subscription one
and then within our subscriptions
what we can then create
are resource groups
so this could be resource group 1
i could have a resource group 2
resource group 3
etc
a subscription i cannot nest
subscriptions in other subscriptions i
cannot nest resource groups in resource
groups so it's a very flat structure
there
and then obviously our resources go into
a resource group this could be
multiple virtual machines
it could be storage accounts it could be
disks whatever i need those to be
and remember we think about putting
things in the same resource group that
share a common life cycle they're part
of the same service they're going to get
created together run
together ultimately get decommissioned
together
and the key point in what we can do with
these management group subscriptions and
resource groups is really about three
key types of management and governance
so the first one we're really going to
focus on remember is policy
so with policy
it's the ability to create those guard
rails now those guard rails can be used
to block i stop something if it
goes against the rules we define
i can audit so we let it happen but
we'll then track that that's good for
compliance or we might remediate hey the
tag is missing we're going to copy it
from the subscription or the resource
group
so the whole point of the policy is we
have these really rules
and then actions
and we assign these at a scope so our
scope remember
well
it can be at management groups
it can be at subscriptions
it can be at resource groups
for all of these things we're going to
talk about one of the key points is
we get inheritance
so if i set a policy or anything else we
talk about at a management group hey
it'll get inherited by the child
management groups by the child
subscriptions by the child resource
groups by the resources within the
resource groups
so we tend to think of we set things at
higher levels that are fairly broad and
generic we have to apply to the whole
company and then get more specific as we
get closer to the resources
then the next type of thing we can
deploy
is role-based access control
remember role-based access control is
about role assignment
a security principle from our azure id
user group service principle managed
identity for an azure resource
gets assigned a certain role
so i have an identity
is given a role
at a certain scope
and once again hey
that scope can be management groups
subscriptions
resource groups so we have those same
constructs available that i can use for
role-based access control as well
and then finally we have the idea of
budget
so i can set a certain dollar amount and
then a threshold of that dollar amount
then that dollar amount could be done in
terms of actual use
i i'm at eighty percent of my budget or
it can be based on forecast if i carry
on the trend that i'm doing
hey i'm gonna hit 120 of my budget and i
can assign the budgets you guessed it
management groups
subscriptions
and resource groups so those three
constructs the management group the
subscription the resource group i can
use for those key policy role-based
access control and budget governance
constructs
and we think about again you're more
generic at the top i don't want to be
too specific or be too many permissions
at the high level
because they all of these get inherited
down when the budget it gets rolled up
depending on where i sign it for all of
the child resources and then i get more
specific as i get closer and closer to
the resource so those are the key
constructs we think about for our
management hierarchy